Alright, we are gonna take a look at
some of the testing stuff that we have
for Spring. So what I wanna do is
establish common terminology around
testing. What is the difference between
the unit tests and integration test is
pretty important. What is a functional
test important stuff and then we're
gonna dive in and look at the tools
that we have for testing Spring
applications. Alright, in this video we
are gonna talk about testing within
the Spring framework. Now I wanna get
into some testing terminology first. Code
under test. So this is a phrase that is
gonna refer to the code or the
application that you are testing. So this
is the actual application code. It could
be a class, a method or a whole
application if we're doing functional
testing. So and then the other term that
we need to distinguish is Test fixture. A
Test fixture is a fixed state of a set
of objects used as a baseline for
running tests. The purpose of a Test
Fixture is to ensure that there will be
a well known and fixed environment in
which the tests are run so that the
results are repeatable and this is right
out of the JUnit documentation. So this
is pretty fairly important. You get two
distinctions here. One is, let's say keep
it simple you have a class that does
something. The Test Fixture is the test
itself and anything that class is gonna depend on. So that could include input
data, any mock objects, maybe loading a
database with known data or giving a
known set of inputs to that method
that you're testing. So two very
important distinctions here I see people
get these a little blurred at times but
you have Code Under Test that is gonna be your code that you wrote for
the application, the class, or whatever
the method. And then the Test Fixture is
the stuff around it that you're using to
test that code. Unit Tests / Unit
Testing. This is code written to test
code under test. So should be very
specific, you're going after to
test a specific portion of code such as
a method within a class. Now the
percentage of the lines code tested
ideally is in the 70% range 70-80%. Some people disagree on this,
some people like to see it more, some
people say less. There's a diminishing
returns on this so you're writing code
to test code. You do wanna have solid
coverage but if you start getting up
around 100 percent that's where you're
becoming very very nitpicky. So you get a
diminishing returns when you start
getting beyond 80%. So you'll be writing
test like code log statements and
getters and setters and things like that
where you don't have a lot of value in
the test code. So I like to shoot in the
70-80% range. It's a good place
to be because you are getting effective
test coverage there. Now you should be
'unity' in your test, it's a kind of a
made-up word there but your unit test
should be small and fast. They're
gonna be targeting very specific
things and a true unit test is not gonna have any external dependencies. It
should not be running on the database, it
should not be bringing up a Spring
context, it should just be your java
class and your test code. So that is
a true unit test and that is in it
addition to or in contrast to I should
say Integration Tests. Now these are
designed to test behaviors between
objects and parts of the overall system. Integration tests are much larger scope
than unit tests. They can include the
Spring context, database, message brokers.
The downside of your integration test is
that they are gonna run slower than
unit tests and that's an important
distinction in your unit test when
you're just targeting a method on a
class is gonna run in a fraction of a
second. Integration test, if you're
bringing up a database through the
Spring context that could take 30
seconds or so or 40 seconds. But the
distinction is, a fraction of second. So
it versus 30 seconds, it's exponentially
larger and the importance is when you
start getting into a large project,
your integration tests are gonna take
time to run. It could take five minutes,
it could take ten minutes, it could take
a half-hour depending on how large the
project you have. And I see a lot of
developers favor integration tests on
things that could be done in a unit
tests. So I like to try to focus on unit
tests over integration tests but
integration tests absolutely do have a
place. Now Functional Tests typically
means you're gonna test a running
application. Your application is live and
likely deployed in a known environment.
So you're gonna be bringing up as
much as you can in that and you're going
to be looking at functional touch points. You could be using a Selenium WebDriver
or Geb and Spock to automatically
test a web application to run a mock
browser and test browser actions. It could
be calling web services, calling the API
and a web service and sending in reports
and sending and receiving messages over
a message broker. So this is where you
are doing functional or also called
end-to-end testing is another bucket for
a functional test. And let's talk about
Test Driven D\evelopment. So that's what
we're gonna be doing in this course
going forward. This is the best practice. Effectively what you wanna do is write
your test first and of course it's gonna be
failing and then you're going to produce
code to fix the test. Now Behavior Driven
Development, something that builds upon
Test Driven Development and it specifies
that test, any unit of software should be
specified in terms of the desired
behavior of the unit. This is often done
with DSLs to create a natural language. The goal of BDD is to open up the
test to more business users and out of developer hands. So you
could have a strong QA or testing person
that's technically adept but you give them a
natural language DSL where they can
configure different scenarios. I've used
Cucumber. That's a good alternative I've
never used JBehave but I hear good
things about it but my personal favorite
for BDD is Spock. That's a Groovy based
test framework and a good example of
Spock is you get a given, when, then. I
really like using Spock especially the
given, when, then
because it gives you a good framework
about thinking about your test. So you're
gonna think about a scenario where
you're given a set of data, when is the
action like calling a method on a class
and the then statement is what you
expect to happen. And you've got to
create test criteria around that. So it's
a really good thing to use and I
personally really favor Spock for
the tests that I write. Now a couple
other terminologies is a Mock and we are
gonna definitely be taking advantage
of mocks. It's a fake implementation of a
class used for testing. It's kind of like a
test double and you see how I've been
teaching you to implement an interface
and do dependency injection with an
interface. Well guess what our mocks can
implement that interface and allows us
to test dependency injection classes so
we can inject a mock in there for our
unit test. Now a Spy is a partial mock
and usually use this for a heavyweight
class where you wanna add in, use that
class but you wanna select methods,
specific methods of that real class to
mock out. So I don't see this used a lot. I
mean there are scenarios where you do
wanna use this as a tool in the
toolbox. I generally favor mocking over
using Spys but there are scenarios
where you do need to use a spy. Alright
testing goals. Touched on this a little
bit already but generally you want the
majority your test to be unit test. Bringing up a Spring context does make
your tests exponentially slower. So I
really focus on testing business logic
inside of unit tests and that's where
you want to test the majority. Your
integration tests are gonna be
testing more integrated things. You're looking
to make sure that interactions work
properly between different components. So
you're not gonna be as granular in
the specificity of what you're
testing. With integration test you're
gonna be a little bit loose around
the specific criteria. You're looking
more for the interaction there where
your unit test, you're gonna be more
precise and what you're asking the test
to verify. And a good way to think about
this is think of like a pyramid where
the
base of that pyramid is gonna be made
up of your unit tests. That's where you
should have the most number of tests and
then the middle of that, is gonna be
your integration test. And at the top
that's where your functional tests are gonna live. So you should, in an
ideal world you can have lots and lots
of unit tests, less integration tests and
even less functional tests. Okay, test scope
dependencies. We have been using the
Spring initializr and that has been
bringing in our spring-boot-starter-test
dependency and when we do that, we get
the following dependencies in there. So
we get JUnit and that is really the de-facto standard for unit testing Java
applications. Wildly popular, it's really
risen to the top of popularity. Most
shops that I work with use JUnit. That's
kind of what I said, the de-facto
standard. So it is a very very popular
and a  simple testing framework to use and
we will be looking at that shortly. Spring test and Spring Boot test, these
are a set of utilities that Spring
provides for testing Spring and Spring
Boot applications. AssertJ, that is a
fluent assertion library and we'll take
a look at that later. Hamcrest is a
library of matcher objects. So JUnit
itself does have some capabilities as
far as doing assertions but Hamcrest
gives us a lot more interesting
capabilities. Mockito is a Java mocking
framework. It is very popular and we will
definitely be utilizing Mockito
and we have JSONassert and JSONPath, these two we when we get into developing
restful interfaces we will be leveraging
those. Now we spoke about JUnit. JUnit 4
is very popular right now. It was
originally written by Erich Gamma and
Kent Beck and Kent Beck is a very iconic
guy in the community. He's the creator of
extreme programming and big agile guy. There's a lot of great working
great contributions to the community. Now at the time of recording, JUnit 5 is
in alpha. Milestone 1 is expected in July
2017 and it's supposed to go GA. I got a
little typo there third quarter of 2017. Now let's take a look at some of the
JUnit 4 annotations. @Test is an
annotation to declare a test method so
that says that it is gonna be an
independent test. And the other ones that
are important is @Before and @After. These
are gonna be things that execute
before each test and it's a good way to
initialize something. And @After you don't
see it used too much but that is gonna be cleaning up things. Then you have
@BeforeClass and @AfterClass. These are
gonna be executed once before
starting all tests and then @AfterClass
likewise. I don't see too much use for
those but you do have use cases for that. @Ignore is a way to disable a test.
Sometimes you do break things by
accident and you acknowledge it and you
say okay I'm gonna ignore this while
I work on something else and fix it and
come back and fix it. So there are cases
where you do wanna use ignore but
sometimes you don't want to. Then the
@Test annotation you can also say you're
expecting an exception. So you do wanna
test a non-happy path and make sure if
you have a condition that you're
expecting it which can cause an
exception, you wanna be testing for
that. And then test timeout as a way to
say if the test takes longer than X
number of milliseconds. And we have a
variety of Spring Boot annotation. I'm
gonna go through these some of these
quickly and talk about the ones that we
are most likely to be using. We have
@RunWith. We will definitely be using that
and that brings up a SpringRunner and
this is what allows Spring to work with
JUnit to bring up the Spring Context.
@SpringBootTest is an annotation that
is going to look for the Spring Boot
Application and bring up its
configuration. So it's kind of
automatically gonna use your same
configuration. Then you can also override
that with the annotation @TestConfiguration. So that's gonna specify
a specific configuration. @MockBean
it's going to inject a Mockito mock so
this is a really handy way to create a
mock object and get a mockito mock
into your tets and we'll definitely be
walking through examples of that. And
then @SpyBean. Similarly, it injects a mockito spy. And then let's
see here we get @JsonTest, @WebMvcTest
and @DataJpaTest. These are all
different annotations that bring up different
Spring slices of the system. So
@JsonTest is something that you should be
using when you are expecting to use
Json input and output. Likely developing
a RESTful API. And you have @WebMvcTest,
this is gonna bring up a test context
without a full HTTP server. So this
is actually a very important one.  It
allows us to test the Spring web MVC
controllers with a mock HTTP session in
environment without the heavyweight of
bringing up like a tomcat server or
deploying to Tomcat. Then @DataJpaTest,
this is gonna bring up a test data
layer with an embedded database and also
the entity managers. So this gives us
like, we can you test Spring Data JPA
against a in memory database. Now we have
a variety of other annotations here.
@JdbcTest is like the @DataJpaTest but
it does not bring up the entity manager
so you're going to be doing tests for
SQL with that. You can test with Mongo,
rest client, Rest Docs is something that
we'll be looking at in the future when we
get to talking about RESTful APIs. Then a
very important one is
@ContextConfiguration, this allows us to specify
a context for the test. It gives us a lot
of control of how Spring brings up the
context. @ActiveProfiles is something
that we'll definitely be looking at in
the future of the course. It allows us to
specify active profile as to which
active profile we wanna be using for a
specific test. @TestPropertySource
allows us to specify a specific property
files for the test.
@DirtiesContext is a very important one
that is going to reset the Spring
context. So when you're running the
Spring Context, it is gonna get cached
between tests so you run multiple tests
against a single Spring context. It's not
gonna get recreated for each one but
when you do the @DirtiesContext,
if you've corrupted something in an
environment, this is where you wanna
use this and it's going to rebuild the
Spring context. After that, the test runs. And this is very expensive to do so
there is a need for it but use that one
with caution. The next one I wanna talk
about is @Transactional. This is something
that we're gonna use definitely when
we're testing database integration and
we haven't really talked too much about
transactions but what this allows us to
do is run our tests, manipulate data and
by default, Spring will roll it back. Now if you don't mark it as
@Transactional, what's gonna happen is the
test will run and it's gonna
populate that data, the test data
generated by the test to your database
and it will be persisted. So it could
corrupt another test. So this is a good
annotation to have. And then @BeforeTransaction, @AfterTransaction, that's
stuff to do before. Obviously
transactions. @Commit is to specify that,
we want that test to commit its data
unlike rolling backward which is what
happens by default. Now we can actually
specify rollback if we need to. @Sql is a
very handy one, it allows us to specify
SQL scripts that we wanna run for our
test and then @SqlConfig will allow us
control some metadata around the test.
And @SqlGroup just allows us to group
together several SQL annotations and
@SqlConfig. @Repeat says to repeat the test x
number of times. And then we have @Timed,
it's very similar to JUnit's @Timeout
but it will actually wait for the test
to complete unlike JUnit. And then @IdProfileValue and @ProfileValueSourceConfiguration,
these are kind of rarely
used but we can say that we are
indicating a test is available for a
specific profile.